Leveraging Unquoted Service Paths
Another interesting attack
vector that can lead to
privilege escalation on
Windows operating systems
revolves around
unquoted service paths.
We can use this attack when
we have write permissions
to a service’s main
directory and subdirectories
but can not replace
files within them.
Please note that this section
of the module will not
be reproducible on the
dedicated student client.
However, this technique can be
used inside the lab environment.
As we have seen in the previous section,
each Windows service maps
to an executable file
that will be run when
the service is started.
Most of the time, services that
accompany third-party software
are stored under the
C:\Program Files directory,
which contains a space
character in its name.
This can potentially be
turned into an opportunity
for a privilege escalation attack.
When using file or directory
paths that contain spaces,
the developers should always
ensure that the path names
are enclosed by quotation marks.
This ensures that they are
explicitly declared.
However, when that is not the case,
and a path name is unquoted,
the path name is open
to interpretation.
Specifically, in the case of
executable paths,
anything that comes after
each whitespace character
will be treated as a potential argument
or option for the executable.
In this example, if we are able to
write to to the “My Program”
or “My Service” directory, we
might be able to trick windows
into executing our malicious executable
when the service is started.
We will use our adduser.exe
payload we created earlier
to add a new user to the system
and add that user to the
administrators group
We could name our executable
program.exe and place in under c:,
or My.exe and place it
in C:\Program Files.
However, standard users do not have write
access to these directories by default.
Instead, let’s attempt to place it
in the “My Program” directory.
In this example, Windows will treat
each space as the end of the filename
and as a result, it will first try
to execute program.exe,
then, program files\my.exe
Before finally finding my.exe under
the “my program”" directory.
When the service runs, it should execute
our file with the same privileges
that the service starts as, which is
usually the NT\SYSTEM account.
Let’s restart the machine.
Now let’s see if our attack worked
by attempting to connect
with the new user account.
Nice! Our attack worked as expected.
Although this vulnerability has a
specific combination of requirements,
it is easily exploitable when
present on a system.